ColorSlider and ColorWheel docs (#1632)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/@react-spectrum/color/docs/ColorSlider.mdx

<!-- Copyright 2020 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. -->

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import docs from 'docs:@react-spectrum/color';
import colorTypes from 'docs:@react-types/color/src/index.d.ts';
import statelyDocs from 'docs:@react-stately/color';
import {HeaderInfo, PropTable, TypeLink} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
import packageData from '@react-spectrum/color/package.json';

```jsx import
import {ColorSlider} from '@react-spectrum/color';
import {Flex} from '@react-spectrum/layout';
```

---

> category: Color

Reviewer: `Colors`, see below

ColorSlider representing a color channel ("red", "green", "blue") would have a hex color code (e.g. "#7f0000") provided. For a full list of supported channels,
see the [Props](#props) table below.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let [value, setValue] = React.useState('hsl(0, 100%, 50%)');
  return (
    <Flex gap="size-150" wrap>
      <ColorSlider
        defaultValue="hsl(0, 100%, 50%)"
        channel="hue" />
      <ColorSlider
        value={value}
        onChange={setValue}
        channel="hue" />
    </Flex>
  );
}
```

## Labeling

The ColorSlider's channel and value are shown above the ColorSlider by default. The label and value label can be hidden by providing
`label={null}` and `showValueLabel={false}` to the ColorSlider.

```tsx example
<Flex gap="size-150" wrap>
  <ColorSlider channel="saturation" defaultValue="hsl(0, 100%, 50%)" label={null} />
  <ColorSlider channel="lightness" defaultValue="hsl(0, 100%, 50%)" showValueLabel={false} />
</Flex>
```

### Accessibility

> If the ColorSlider's label is hidden, a localized string for the channel name is used as the `aria-label` by default. The value of the ColorSlider

Reviewer: If we are populating the label by default, when it is null should be populated aria-label by default?

Author: yep

<!-- Copyright 2020 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. -->

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import docs from 'docs:@react-spectrum/color';
import colorTypes from 'docs:@react-types/color/src/index.d.ts';
import statelyDocs from 'docs:@react-stately/color';
import {HeaderInfo, PropTable, TypeLink} from '@react-spectrum/docs';

> import packageData from '@react-spectrum/color/package.json';

Reviewer: Do these need to be alphabetized?

```jsx import
import {ColorSlider} from '@react-spectrum/color';
import {Flex} from '@react-spectrum/layout';
```

---
category: Color
keywords: [color slider]
---

# ColorSlider

<p>{docs.exports.ColorSlider.description}</p>

<HeaderInfo
  packageData={packageData}
  componentNames={['ColorSlider']}
  sourceData={[
    {type: 'Spectrum', url: 'https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/color-slider/'}
  ]} />

## Example

```tsx example
<ColorSlider defaultValue="#7f0000" channel="red" />
```

## Value

> A ColorSlider requires either a uncontrolled default value or a controlled value, provided using the `defaultValue` or `value` props respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A ColorSlider requires either an uncontrolled default value or a controlled value, provided using the `defaultValue` or `value` props respectively.
```

The value provided to either of these props should be a string or <TypeLink links={colorTypes.links} type={colorTypes.exports.Color} />  object that matches the provided ColorSlider's `channel` prop. For example, a

> ColorSlider representing a color channel ("red", "green", "blue") would have a hex color code (e.g. "#7f0000") provided. For a full list of supported channels,

Reviewer 2: I don't really understand what you are trying to say here. Can you reword/elaborate?

Author: For which bit specifically?
If for the Color object bit:
The type for `value` is "string | Color" where `Color` is defined as [this](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/blob/main/packages/@react-types/color/src/index.d.ts#L47-L77). This Color object can come from using `parseColor` (which people may use for controlled ColorSliders since onChange returns a Color object).

If for the matching color channel, the string/object needs to match (e.g. if channel="red"/"green"/"blue", the string would need to be a hex color value. If the channel was "hue" then a hsl value e.g. `hsl(0, 100%, 50%)` or a hsb value e.g. `hsb(0, 100%, 50%)`)

Reviewer 2: You could also use a rgb object `rgb(100, 10, 10)` instead of hex which is maybe where my confusion comes from?

Author: Ah, derp, thats right. I'll add that to line 50

> The value provided to either of these props should be a string or <TypeLink links={colorTypes.links} type={colorTypes.exports.Color} /> object that matches the provided ColorSlider's `channel` prop. For example, a
> ColorSlider representing a color channel ("red", "green", "blue") could have a hex color code (e.g. "#7f0000") or a decimal code (e.g. "rgb(127, 0, 0)") provided.
> For a full list of supported channels, see the [Props](#props) table below.

Reviewer 3: I don't quite understand the second half of this paragraph.

```suggestion
The value provided to either of these props should be a color string or <TypeLink links={colorTypes.links} type={colorTypes.exports.Color} /> object. A `channel` prop must also be provided to specify which color channel the slider should display.
```

Author: I was trying to explain that `channel` and the `value` provided have to be compatible. For instance you can't pass in a HSL value and use the "red" color channel.

Reviewer 3: Ah ok, updated my suggestion.

In the example below, the <TypeLink links={statelyDocs.links} type={statelyDocs.exports.parseColor} /> function is used to parse the initial color from a HSL string
so that `value`'s type remains consistent.

```tsx example
import {parseColor} from '@react-stately/color';

function Example() {
  let [value, setValue] = React.useState(parseColor('hsl(0, 100%, 50%)'));
  return (
    <Flex gap="size-300" wrap>
      <ColorSlider
        label="Hue (uncontrolled)"
        defaultValue="hsl(0, 100%, 50%)"
        channel="hue" />
      <ColorSlider
        label="Hue (controlled)"
        value={value}
        onChange={setValue}
        channel="hue" />
    </Flex>
  );
}
```

## Labeling

> The ColorSlider's channel and value are shown above the ColorSlider by default. The label and value label can be hidden by providing
> `label={null}` and `showValueLabel={false}` to the ColorSlider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ColorSlider's channel name and value are shown above the ColorSlider by default. The label and value label can be hidden by providing
`label={null}` and `showValueLabel={false}` to the ColorSlider, respectively. In addition, a custom label can be provided via the `label` prop.
```

```tsx example
<Flex gap="size-300" wrap alignItems="flex-end">
  <ColorSlider channel="saturation" defaultValue="hsl(0, 100%, 50%)" label={null} />
  <ColorSlider channel="lightness" defaultValue="hsl(0, 100%, 50%)" showValueLabel={false} />
</Flex>
```

### Accessibility

If the ColorSlider's label is hidden, a localized string for the channel name is used as the `aria-label` by default. The value of the ColorSlider
is also automatically localized and provided to the input as `aria-valuetext` regardless of the value label's visibility. If you provide your own `aria-label`
or `aria-labelledby`, be sure to localize the string or labeling element appropriately.

### Internationalization

For languages that are read right-to-left (e.g. Hebrew and Arabic), the layout of the ColorSlider is automatically flipped. As mentioned previously,
ColorSlider automatically uses the current locale to format the channel and value label.

## Step values

> The `step` prop can be used to snap the ColorSlider's value to specific increments. Be sure to provide a number that makes sense for value range of the ColorSlider's channel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `step` prop can be used to snap the ColorSlider's value to specific increments. Be sure to provide a number that makes sense for the range of the ColorSlider's channel
```
?

> (e.g. "alpha" channel value ranges from 0 to 1 so the step should be less than 1).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(e.g. An "alpha" channel value ranges from 0 to 1 so the step should be less than 1).
```

> (e.g. An "alpha" channel value ranges from 0 to 1 so the step should be less than 1).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(e.g. the "alpha" channel value ranges from 0 to 1 so the step should be less than 1).
```

```tsx example
<Flex gap="size-300" wrap>
  <ColorSlider channel="hue" defaultValue="hsl(0, 100%, 50%)" step={10} />
  <ColorSlider channel="alpha" defaultValue="hsla(0, 100%, 50%, 0.5)" step={.05} />
</Flex>
```

## Events

> ColorSlider accepts two events, `onChange` and `onChangeEnd`. The former is triggered whenever the ColorSlider's handle is dragged while the
> latter fires when the user stops dragging the handle. Note that a <TypeLink links={colorTypes.links} type={colorTypes.exports.Color} /> object
> is returned by `onChange` and `onChangeEnd`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ColorSlider supports two events: `onChange` and `onChangeEnd`. `onChange` is triggered whenever the ColorSlider's handle is dragged, and `onChangeEnd`
is triggered when the user stops dragging the handle. Both events receive a <TypeLink links={colorTypes.links} type={colorTypes.exports.Color} /> object
as a parameter.
```

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let [currentValue, setCurrentValue] = React.useState(parseColor('hsl(50, 100%, 50%)'));
  let [finalValue, setFinalValue] = React.useState(parseColor('hsl(50, 100%, 50%)'));

  return (
    <div>
      <ColorSlider
        value={currentValue}
        channel="hue"
        onChange={setCurrentValue}
        onChangeEnd={setFinalValue} />
      <pre>Current value: {currentValue.toString('hsl')}</pre>
      <pre>Final value: {finalValue.toString('hsl')}</pre>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Creating a color picker

### RGBA

This example shows how you could build an RGBA color picker using four color sliders bound to the same
color value in state. The <TypeLink links={statelyDocs.links} type={statelyDocs.exports.parseColor} />
function is used to parse the initial color from a hex value, stored in state. The `value` and `onChange` props
of ColorSlider are used to make the sliders controlled, so that they all update when the color is modified.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let [color, setColor] = React.useState(parseColor('#ff00ff'));

  return (
    <Flex direction="column">

>       <ColorSlider value={color} onChange={setColor} channel={'red'} />

Author: copy pasta strikes again

      <ColorSlider value={color} onChange={setColor} channel={'green'} />
      <ColorSlider value={color} onChange={setColor} channel={'blue'} />
      <ColorSlider value={color} onChange={setColor} channel={'alpha'} />
    </Flex>
  );
}
```

### HSLA

This example shows how to build a similar color picker to the one above, using HSLA colors instead.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let [color, setColor] = React.useState(parseColor('hsla(0, 100%, 50%, 0.5)'));

  return (
    <Flex direction="column">

>       <ColorSlider channel="hue" value={color} onChange={setColor} />

Author: changed the order so it is more consistent now

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let [color, setColor] = React.useState(parseColor('hsba(0, 100%, 50%, 0.5)'));
  return (
    <>
      <ColorSlider channel="hue" value={color} onChange={setColor} />
      <ColorSlider channel="saturation" value={color} onChange={setColor} />
      <ColorSlider channel="brightness" value={color} onChange={setColor} />
      <ColorSlider channel="alpha" value={color} onChange={setColor} />
    </>
  );
}
```

## Props

<PropTable component={docs.exports.ColorSlider} links={docs.links} />

## Visual options

### Disabled
[View guidelines](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/color-slider/#Disabled)

```tsx example
<ColorSlider defaultValue="#7f0000"  channel="red" isDisabled />
```

### Vertical
[View guidelines](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/color-slider/#Orientation)

```tsx example
<ColorSlider defaultValue="#7f0000" channel="red" orientation="vertical" />
```

### Custom Size
[View guidelines](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/color-slider/#Length)

```tsx example
<Flex direction="column" gap="size-300">
  <ColorSlider defaultValue="#7f0000" channel="red" orientation="vertical" height={300} />

>   <ColorSlider defaultValue="#7f0000" channel="red" width={300} />

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a maxWidth so it doesn't go off the page on mobile?

Author: Argh, I always forget to check on mobile, thanks
